Welcome back.
Let's continue with our unit tests now.
One thing I noticed here is that when looking at the documentation we actually have an assert is instance
so we can actually instead of saying assert true just use the assert is instance which we give a and
b.
Again all these tests are methods.
There's no right one you can use whichever one you want as a tool to improve your code so in my case
let's just change this to assert is instance and fix this like this.
So just a little cleaner.
Let's see if this works.
All right.
Everything is still good.
OK.
Let's try and break our code again so everything is looking good.
But what if we do something different.
What if we do let's say at another test and we'll say test do stuff too.
Usually you want to name these functions a lot better so they're more descriptive.
But in our case this is fine just so we can see how they work this time around let's do a test program
is going to equal how about a non.
So now if I run this let's run this code again and by the way you might notice here how I'm copying
code in a test and you might think well can we just make this simpler and not repeat ourself.
And you can totally do that and make things a lot easier.
But when it comes to tests because they don't go into production and this is just for development purposes
you really want to have tests that are easy to read so that other people understand your tests because
when it comes to testing Readability is really really important.
We don't care as much about not repeating ourself and making our code efficient nice and small so I
like writing tests that are really descriptive really obvious.
All right in here let's say self dot assert equal.
And what should this be well in this case.
I'm expecting a value error so let's do this.
I expect that the result will be a value error.
I'm going to save and run my test.
All right I get an error.
It says this is a type error into argument must be a string and I'm giving it a non type.
All right.
So this isn't handling it properly because it just doesn't work with the end.
We get a type error.
So how can we fix this.
Huckabee adjusted in case we get a non type in the parameter.
Well first off let's give it a default parameter.
Let's say the default parameter is zero.
If I run this
I still get the error.
OK.
So we still haven't fixed it.
The argument must be a strict a by like object or a no not non type.
OK.
So we are still not checking for the non type.
So another thing we can do is say if no.
So we're checking if we have the no value because remember this is going to default to true if it has
any sort of numbers or well any value but if it's a non type it's going to turn into false.
So in here if no one gets a return this else otherwise will return please enter number so I'm going
to say this and now change this because now we should expect.
Please enter number into my test and I'm going to say assert equal that result is going to be please
enter number if I now run my test.
Let's clear this oh looks like I'm getting ran two tests in 0 seconds but we have three tests and that's
because you see here that I named mine the same.
Remember if you name the thing the same well it's only going to run one of them.
So make sure that all the test names are unique.
So I'm going to run this all right.
Ran three tests and everything is working fine
very very cool.
So you can see here how we went from a very simple function and we started catching these errors and
started realizing how our function was too simplistic that if we received a wrong input
a string or a non type well as soon as we did that our function failed.
So by using tests and as testing and breaking things I was able to improve this function.
So it's more durable so that now it works a lot better in production.
Right.
And this is the power of tests.
It allows us to check for any mistakes that we may have made because maybe we wouldn't have thought
of doing something like this initially but by writing tests alongside our code we were able to improve
the function.
Now one last thing I want to add.
Let's just add another one over the tests and say that this do stuff for what if the test parameter
is just an empty string we should get Please enter a number.
So if I ran this all right four tests are passing.
So it looks like our code is working nicely now to finish off here.
I want to just point out a few things I'm calling here.
Unit test on Main but this has nothing to do with the actual file that we wrote which is the main file
if let's say I rename this so let's go to my desktop and say I want to change this to script dot pi
let's now open this my case with sublime text.
Let's go back here.
So you see here that main dot pi is while doesn't exist anymore it's asking me to save.
So this is a completely different file now.
If I do script here and simply change all the instances to script
if I save this and now run this still works unit test on Main simply says hey just run all the tests
over here.
Now one thing and this is a common practice that we've talked about before is because you want to say
run this file if this is the main file being run because we don't really want to import test main or
anything like this into other files.
These are individual files that should only be run when we run our tests.
So I can just say if underscore underscore name equals underscore underscore main
then run this piece of code.
So now if I save this and run.
There you go.
Everything is still working.
But now I make sure that this is a test file and I'm only going to run this code if it's the file that's
being run.
If it's the main file being run.
So this is a standard way that you would have your unit test done with the unit test module.
Let's take a break and talk a little bit more about tests in the next video.